***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:it a Java Development Kit. JDK is used for Java development as it provides the entire executable and binaries as well as tools required to compile, debug a Java program
it contain JRE, JA VAC, JAR, KEYTOOL.
What is an IDE?
Answer: Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application that enables users to write and debug Java programs more easily.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: Eclips,intellij, netbeens, JDevelpoer.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: Editing the program
        Compiling the source code
        Executing the byte code

What is a class?
Answer: a class is a blueprint of objects.
It Is a creation  of new objects of that class type.

What is an object?
Answer: an object is an instance of a class. can be related to a real word object.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer: The main() method

Why is the main() method static?
Answer: means that there is no need to create objects in order to access static methods or variables.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: the Object class. java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: In order to set CLASSPATH, you need to include all the directories which contain .class files and jar files  as required by the application
In order to set PATH ,  JDK_HOME/bin directory needs to be included in PATH environment variable.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: in interface, by default all methods are public, fields are static and final whereas in abstract the fields can be nonstatic or nonfinal.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: no, both Interface and Abstract class are similar where we can't create objects.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: 1/ public; accessible by all packages/classes in the same project
2/ protected; accessible by all classes within the same package
3/ private; accessible by only the class it was declared within


What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a computer programming model that organizes software design around data, or objects, rather than functions and logic
  * Inheritance. Classes can reuse code from other classes. Relationships and subclasses between objects can be assigned, enabling developers to reuse common logic while still maintaining a unique hierarchy
  * Abstraction is a process where you show only “relevant” data and “hide” unnecessary details of an object from the user.
  * Encapsulation: Encapsulation simply means binding object state(fields) and behaviour(methods) together. If you are creating class, you are doing encapsulation
  * Polymorphism is a object oriented programming feature that allows us to perform a single action in different ways

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: The package is the organizer for or code.
java.lang package.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:  Application Programming Interface (API) is mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each other using a set of definitions and protocols


Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: multiple inheritances is not allowed in java. because want to prevent ambiguity

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: Method overloading is a feature of Java in which a class has more than one method of the same name and their parameters are different.
The number of parameters in two methods.
The data types of the parameters of methods.
The Order of the parameters of methods.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: An Exception is an unwanted event that interrupts the normal flow of the program.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: * The static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class
What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: * final is the keyword and access modifier which is used to apply restrictions on a class, method or variable.
Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer: *Final  (a) Once declared, final variable becomes constant and cannot be modified.
        (b) final method cannot be overridden by sub class.
        (c) final class cannot be inherited.
* Finally (a) finally block runs the important code even if exception occurs or not.
          (b) finally block cleans up all the resources used in try block
*  Finalize method performs the cleaning activities with respect to the object before its destruction

What is a constructor?
Answer: * a constructor is a block of codes similar to the method. It is called when an instance of the class is created
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: * Yes, a Class in  can have more than Constructor.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: * If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer: * The "this" keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.
What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:  * The super keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects
  *  Use of super with variables and with the methods.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: JVM is Java Virtual Machine, is an engine that provides a runtime environment to drive the Java Code or applications.
It converts Java bytecode into machine language
Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:
* JVM is highly platform dependent.
What version of Java are you using?
Answer: version 11.0.14

What does JAR stand for?
Answer: * JAR stands for Java ARchive.
It's a file format based on the popular ZIP file format and is used for aggregating many files into one
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:
* The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit. The full form of JVM is Java Virtual Machine.
* JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java. JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:
 * JRE It contains class libraries and other supporting files that JVM requires to execute the program. While JVM Software development tools are not included in JVM.
 * The JRE is the part of Java that creates the JVM, BUT It is the Java platform component that executes source

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: *  compile-time is errors that occur when you violate the rules of writing syntax.
*  Run-Time is errors which occur during program execution(run-time) after successful compilation are called run-time errors
What is heap?
Answer: * Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects
How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: * Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector. memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
Java does memory management automatically
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: * String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
* StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That’s why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Answer: * a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:
* Java serialization is a mechanism to transform an object into a byte stream.
While With deserialization, you have a byte stream and you recreate the object in the same state as when you serialized it
Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:
* while loop the condition is evaluated before the execution of the loop’s body, but in a Do while loop the condition is evaluated after the execution
What is Enum?
Answer:
* Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants
What is Iterator?
Answer:
* An iterator is an object that has methods that allow you to proccess a collection of items one at a time.
Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:
* Immutability gives the security of loading the correct class by Classloader.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:
* Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:
* the difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process,
 while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.
What does JIT stands for?
Answer: Just-In-Time compiler is one of the integral parts of the Java Runtime Environment.
It is mainly responsible for performance optimization of Java-based applications at run time or execution time.
Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:Memory shortage problem is more likely to happen in stack whereas the main issue in heap memory is fragmentation.
In a stack, the allocation and de-allocation are automatically done by the compiler whereas in heap, it needs to be done by the programmer manually.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer: Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: is a multi-threaded programming language which means we can develop multi-threaded program using Java

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource

What is a Framework?
Answer: is platform of pre-written codes used by Java developers to develop Java applications or web applications

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:  Selenium, JUnit, Serenity,TestNG

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:jUnit This particular framework aims at performing unit testing where a code snippet can be passed in the path, via functions or methods
TestNG is an open-source testing framework and inspired by the other two prominent frameworks – JUnit and NUnit with some new additional functionalities

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer: it is used design pattern that helps to separate components’ behavior from dependency resolution.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: static binding is binding which can be resolved at compile time by the compiler.
In Dynamic binding compiler doesn’t decide the method to be called.